---
title: "General thoughts after three weeks"
date: "2022-09-19"
categories: 
  - "software-engineering"
---

### Drinking from the fire hose

The last time I studied programming was over twenty years ago. I tried to regulate my expectations about what had changed or not, and what I would remember or not from back then. After the first three weeks, I can say that I remembered more than I thought, and also modern programming is more different than I thought, so I suppose it balances out. Javascript has become the most used programming language in the human world, thanks to the explosion of web applications that drive most people's digital lives. Web browsers and other platforms for internet applications rarely directly interact with source HTML anymore, but rather a Domain Object Model generated by programming logic. It was all just below the surface of my everyday computer interactions, just waiting for me to discover it. Now that I have seen it, I can't look at my favorite websites and apps the same way again.

### Javascript

I had studied Java 20 years ago, and BASIC briefly before that. Being in a computer science program, our first goals were academic and conceptual. Our first assignments looked more familiar to me than I expected.

```
function scuberGreetingForFeet(feet){
  if (feet <= 400) {
    return 'This one is on me!'
  }
  else if (feet <= 2000) {
    return 'That will be twenty bucks.'
  }
  else if (feet <= 2500){
    return 'I will gladly take your thirty bucks.'
  }
  else if (feet >= 2501){
    return 'No can do.'
  }
}
```

Then I began to discover just how far things had come from what I had learned in terms of streamlining writing the basic, common functions that almost any program needs.

```
function switchOnCharmFromTip(tip){
  switch (tip){
    case "generous": return 'Thank you so much.';
    case 'not as generous': return 'Thank you.';
    default : return 'Bye.';
  }
}
```

## Document Object Model

The Document Object Model was completely new to me. I had learned HTML in high school; static web pages were the norm then. Submittable forms and GIF animated graphics were about as fancy as things got. Now you can grab, manipulate and create the display and interface elements on the website programatically, using any arbitrary data you want. It was a revelation.

```
leftNationality.textContent = `${leftForm.name.value} may be from one of the following countries:`
        leftNationalityList.innerHTML = ''
        data.country.forEach(country => {
            const listItem = document.createElement('li')
            listItem.textContent = regionNames.of(country.country_id)
            leftNationalityList.append(listItem)
            
        })
```
